# Integrating Co-expression and Interaction Network with GWAS to Identify Mitochondrial Genes Related to COVID-19 in Cornea
The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic severely challenges public health and necessitates the need for increasing our understanding of COVID-19 pathogenesis, especially host factors facilitating virus infection and propagation. Here, the co-expression network was constructed by mapping the well-known ACE2, TMPRSS2 and host susceptibility genes implicated in COVID-19 GWAS onto a cornea, retinal pigment epithelium and lung. We found a significant co-expression module of these genes in the cornea, revealing that cornea is potential extra-respiratory entry portal of SARS-CoV-2. Strikingly, both co-expression and interaction networks show a significant enrichment in mitochondrial function, which are the hub of cellular oxidative homeostasis, inflammation and innate immune response. We identified a corneal mitochondrial susceptibility module (CMSM) of 14 mitochondrial genes identify by integrating ACE2 co-expression cluster and SARS-CoV-2 interactome. Gene ECSIT, as a cytosolic adaptor protein involved in inflammatory responses, exhibits the strongest correlation with ACE2 in CMSM, which has shown to be an important risk factor for SARS-CoV-2 infection and prognosis. Our co-expression and protein interaction network analysis uncover that the mitochondrial function related genes in cornea contribute to the dissection of COVID-19 susceptibility and potential therapeutic interventions.
## Methods 
We collected and analyzed the several RNA-seq studies of the normal tissue of cornea (n=19 samples), retina (n=310 samples), retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) (n=207 samples) and lung (n = 546 samples) from the NCBI GEO database (GSE77938 and GSE115828) and GTEx database. Individual data sets underwent stringent quality control and normalization, outliers were defined as samples with standardized sample network connectivity Z scores < -2 and were removed. To specifically characterize the biological pathways involved, we performed k-means analysis, identifying several co-expression clusters. The cluster eigengene was defined as the first principal component summarizing the expression patterns of all genes into a single expression profile within a given cluster. The cluster membership for each virus entry factors and disease susceptibility gene was determined. The gene content of function related module (cluster) was characterized using the Metascape gene enrichment analysis tool. Statistical analysis was done using the R project for statistical computing (http://www.r-project.org).
